---
title: About
---

<a href='images/yuuki-3mo.jpg'>
  <img style='margin-left:1em; margin-bottom:1em' src='images/yuuki-3mo-small.jpg' alt='Me with 3mo Yuuki' align='right'/>
</a>

<p>I'm a postdoctoral reseacher at the <a href='https://poisotlab.io/'>Poisot
lab</a> (<a href='https://www.umontreal.ca/en/'>University of Montreal</a>)
working on <b>probabilistic programming with typed λ-calculi</b>. I'm also
interested in theoretical ecology, high-performance computing with
Rust/C/C++/CUDA, and neuro-symbolic approaches.</p>

<p>The origin of my interest in A.I. lies in the difficulties I encounted
working in theoretical {population genetics, ecology} with how to connect a
vast network of ideas in a single framework. In short: I thought synthesis in
these complex domains is impossible without some sort of language flexible
enough to allow probabilistic reasoning but rigorous enough to be able to
encode mathematical theories, a.k.a the union of probabilistic programming with
typed λ-calculi.</p>

<p>I <a
href='https://journals.plos.org/plosbiology/article?id=10.1371/journal.pbio.1001563'>published
a paper promoting open preprints in biology</a> and support open access in
science.</p>

<p>I did my Ph.D. at the <a
href='https://ielab.recherche.usherbrooke.ca/'>Canada Research Chair on
Integrative ecology</a> (<a href='http://www.usherbrooke.ca/'>Université de
Sherbrooke</a>). My work was supported by an Alexander Graham Bell Graduate
Scholarship from the <a href='https://www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/'>NSERC</a>, a
generous <a href='https://research.microsoft.com/en-us/projects/azure/'>Azure
for Research Award from Microsoft Research</a>, and a hardware donation from <a
href='https://www.nvidia.com/'>NVIDIA</a>. My postdoctoral work at the <a
href='https://poisotlab.io/'>Poisot lab</a>(<a
href='https://www.umontreal.ca/en/'>University of Montreal</a>) was made
possible by a generous grant by the Courtois foundation.</p>

<p>My work relies on many high-quality open-source projects:
  <a href='https://www.haskell.org/ghc/'>Glasgow Haskell Compiler</a>,
  <a href='https://github.com/agda/agda'>Agda</a> &amp; <a href='https://github.com/UniMath/agda-unimath'>Unimath</a>,
  <a href='https://leanprover.github.io/'>Lean</a> &amp; <a href='https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib'>Mathlib</a>,
  <a href='https://www.linux.com/'>Linux</a>/<a href='https://www.ubuntu.com/'>Ubuntu</a>,
  <a href='https://llvm.org/'>LLVM</a>,
  <a href='https://gcc.gnu.org/'>GCC</a>,
  <a href='https://www.rust-lang.org/'>Rust</a>,
  <a href='https://www.boost.org/'>Boost</a>,
  <a href='https://www.vim.org/'>Vim</a>/<a href='https://neovim.io/'>Neovim</a>,
  <a href='https://code.visualstudio.com/'>VS Code</a>,
  <a href='https://git-scm.com/'>Git</a>.
</p>

